Though most vulnerability scanning tools simply show you
the CVSS score so you don't have to manually calculate them yourself,
it's important to understand how these scores are generated.
It helps you both understand how bad some gaps might be,
as well as score things yourself if you manually find
a vulnerability for which a CVSS score hasn't been assigned.
The first half of the page here shows the scoring dashboard.
It's empty now because we haven't selected anything,
but you'll see it change as we do.
In the second half of the page,
this shows the sections for each of the scoring factor categories that we discussed.
This feed the overall score.
You have your bass section, your temporal section,
and your environmental section,
again, just as we discussed.
If you look at the base section, for example,
you'll see that a lot of the different factors play into how it's scores,
everything from the attack vector.
If you look at the boxes underneath,
you'll see what the options are for that.
I'll show there's a quick trick here to just hover over
the astrix and that will give you
a description of what each is if you want to learn more information.
Attack vector is really how this attack happens.
It can happen over the network if you hover over that and see more information as well,
it can happen over adjacent networks,
local and so on.
Basically everything that you select here then populates that score.
I'm just going to put in some basic tests selections
here just to show what a score would look like.
Let's say for user interaction,
none is required and we'll say the scope has changed.
We're just putting in a couple of examples here.
It talks about impacts.
How does this impact confidentiality?
Let's say the impact is high for that,
but it's low for integrity and let's say it's high for availability, whatever that is.
Deciding on those things, again,
depends on the vulnerability.
But once we've selected those things for all of the sections below,
that's when the score actually populates.
Again, every one of those selections contributes to the number.
What you have here is a depiction of the scoring
for each of the different categories across each domain.
Then finally, you have an overall score,
which is probably the most important thing that you'll see across various tools.
You have this overall score,
in this case, is 6.7.
But one differentiator I want to explain is you'll see a lot of use of this base score,
and the difference between bass and overall is that the base score
takes into account only details about the vulnerability specifically,
while the temporal score and environmental score that contributes to this overall score
take into account context around
timing that's required and enterprises actual environment.
This part can change and be somewhat subjective,
but this is the part that is usually pretty consistent,
and so you get an overall score.
The other thing that is important to note here is this severity vector string.
This string here, you'll see across different vulnerability reports,
you'll see it in different tools,
and so it's a common thing to keep in mind.
What this does is summarize all of the selections that
come from these tables because you might not have this in every report.
If we break this down and look into it even more,
I'm going to zoom in so that you can see this string more.
The first three letters are AVP,
and if you look at this section right here on attack vector,
you'll see the abbreviation is AV and physical is P, so it's AVP.
You can tell from this string that from an exploitability standpoint,
the attack vector is physical and each of these sections between
the slashes is associated with one of these categories.
Let's say we wanted to find this,
its confidentiality is high,
CH, and so that matches up.
The next string here in this section is CH in terms of confidentiality impact being high.
That's how you can read vector strings to learn more
about how severe or more details on vulnerability in general.
That's a high level overview of how to use
this framework and I encourage you again to go through this,
play around with it, hover over the boxes,
and learn more about each one of them means,
because it'll help you understand vulnerabilities better.